Terminal Exercises

Write the following terminal commands to perform the following tasks:

Part I

1. make a directory called first
    mkdir first
2. change directory to the first folder
    cd first
3. create a file called person.txt
    touch person.txt
4. change the name of person.txt to another.txt
    mv person.txt another.txt
5. make a copy of the another.txt file and call it copy.txt
    cp another.txt copy.txt
6. remove the copy.txt file
    rm copy.txt
7. make a copy of the first folder and call it second
    cp -r first second
8. delete the second folder
    rmdir second

Part II

1. What does the man command do? Type in man rm. How do you scroll and get out?
    It looks up the manual of a terminal command by typing 'man' then the 'command type'. Press up and down arrows to scroll. Press 'q' to exit.
2. Look at the man page for ls. What does the -l flag do? What does the -a flag do?
    The -l flag for ls presents a long list format, while -a unignore hidden files that start with a dot.
3. How do you jump between words in the terminal?
    By pressing alt then either left or right arrow.
4. How do you get to the end of a line in terminal?
    By pressing ctrl then 'e'.
5. How do you move your cursor to the beginning in terminal?
    By pressing ctrl then 'a'.
6. How do you delete a word (without pressing backspace multiple times) in terminal?
    Position cursor after word and then press ctrl then 'w'.
7. What is the difference between a terminal and shell?
    Terminal is a CLI application that interacts with computer, while shell is the actual program that is processing commands in the background.
8. What is an absolute path?
    It is the complete path directory from root to current.
9. What is a relative path?
    Being in the same path or within the same directory.
10. What is a flag? Give three examples of flags you have used.
    It changes or enhances a terminal command by adding it after the command. I mostly use -l and -a with 'ls'. I use -r to 'cp' a directory.
11. What do the r and f flags do with the rm command?
    To be able to 'rmdir' a directory that is not empty, the -rf flags have to be added for recursive and force options.